---
title: "Reflecting on cultural wealth and repaying educational debt in the biology 
classroom: student achievement using GenBio-MAPS at a research-intensive, 
minority-serving institution."
collection: talks
type: "short talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-07-11-SABERNat
venue: "SABER National Conference"
date: 2023-07-21
location: "Minneapolis, MN, USA"
---

also presented as a **poster** at the SABER West regional conference in Irvine, CA USA; **14 Jan 2024**


## Society for the Advancement of Biology Education Research

from [SABER /About-Us](https://saberbio.wildapricot.org/About-Us "retrieved 2025-12-20"):

>**Mission:** The Society for the Advancement of Biology Education Research's mission is to transform biology education through research and practice.

>The inaugural meeting of SABER was held in 2010 and included 29 invited participants who laid the groundwork for the Society we know today. This inaugural group was convened with support from a NSF RCN-UBE Incubator grant ([#0955572](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=0955572 "NSF-award #0955572")) written by Mary Pat Wenderoth, Clarissa Dirks, and Teri Balser. This meeting led to the formal creation of SABER, our original mission statement, and held the first annual conference in 2011. The attendees produced a meeting report that was published in CBE-Life Sciences Education in 2011. You can read the report by Offerdahl et al. (2011). Mary Pat and Clarissa were granted another award from the NSF (#1143545) which helped support the 2nd annual meeting in 2012. SABER meetings have been held in Bruininks Hall at the University of Minnesota since the inaugural meeting in 2010. This building was specifically designed to support evidence-based science instruction. SABER annual meetings and online presence have been led by Dr. Mary Pat Wenderoth since 2010. After the 2017 annual conference, Mary Pat convened a Steering Committee, comprised of 8 SABER members, to develop formal bylaws and policies, to organize and run an election for a leadership team, and to lay the groundwork for committees and other structures to support the mission of SABER.

>The first formal officers took office prior to the 2019 annual meeting, with Mary Pat serving as the inaugural Past President.

*[NSF]: (USA) National Science Foundation